AAP-2844 Add collections and content signing info (#493)
RedHatInsights/red-hat-ansible-automation-platform-documentation: downstream/modules/automation-hub/proc-configure-ansible-galaxy-cli-verify.adoc

[id="proc-configure-ansible-galaxy-cli-verify_{context}"]

= Configuring Ansible-Galaxy CLI to verify collections

You can configure Ansible-Galaxy CLI to verify collections. This assures that collections you download are approved by your organization and have not been changed after it was uploaded to  {HubName}.

.Prerequisites

> * Signed and certified collections have been published to {HubName}.

Reviewer: Certified collections published to hub won't be a pre requisite here, you just want to have signed collections in hub to verify signature, and certified collections can also be signed.

* Public key for verification has been added to the local system keyring.

.Procedure

If a collection has been signed by the Galaxy server, the server provides ASCII armored, detached signatures to verify the authenticity of the MANIFEST.json before using it to verify the collection’s contents. You must opt into signature verification by link:https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/devel/reference_appendices/config.html#galaxy-gpg-keyring[configuring a keyring] for `ansible-galaxy` or providing the path with the `--keyring` option.

> . To import a public key into a keyring for use with `ansible-galaxy`, run the following command.

Reviewer: into a keyring "which is not default"

Author: @anshulbehl - I was not clear on what you meant here. Did you mean the following: "To import a public key into a unique keyring to use with `ansible-galaxy` CLI..."?

When I read your comment at first, I tested things literally and here is what it seemed like you were saying: "To import a public key into a keyring, which is not default, for use with `ansible-galaxy`..." This option seemed a bit awkward in meaning. Can you provide a little more clarification here so that I'm clearly saying what should be said here? Thanks, @anshulbehl.

+
----
gpg --import --no-default-keyring --keyring ~/.ansible/pubring.kbx my-public-key.asc
----
+
[NOTE]
====
In addition to any signatures provided by the Galaxy server, signature sources can also be provided in the requirements file and on the command line. Signature sources should be URIs.
====
+

> . Use the --signature option to verify collection name(s) provided on the CLI with an additional signature.

Reviewer: I am unsure if this explains the usage properly here, this almost feels like users who don't understand gpg won't be able to understand how this works. but I maybe wrong, maybe @sivel can help

Author: @anshulbehl - I do agree with you here. I am just limited by not having a sandbox or something that displays the process more clearly to me. I thought I could rely on the Signing content collectins exercise you designed in instruqt, but that is set up a bit differently. 
@sivel - Can you provide more insight here? Would greatly appreciate your expertise.

Reviewer 2: This documentation does feel a little hollow, especially since I don't see any directly linked documentation on creating additional signatures.  To be honest, the `--signature` CLI flag, as well as the ability to place signatures into `requirements.yml` was more of a community feature than one intended for customer use, since the community will not get access to a galaxy server that has signing capabilities.

It's probably still useful to a very small percentage of customers, but without clarification about why they may want to do this instead of just utilizing on-prem hub for signatures, this basically is a footnote that this is possible functionality.

Author: Will bring this up again with Dylan Silva.

[id="proc-configure-ansible-galaxy-cli-verify"]

= Configuring Ansible-Galaxy CLI to verify collections

> You can configure Ansible-Galaxy CLI to verify collections. This assures that collections you download are approved by your organization and have not been changed after it was uploaded to {HubName}.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can configure Ansible-Galaxy CLI to verify collections. This assures that collections you download are approved by your organization and have not been changed after they were uploaded to {HubName}.
```

Author: Updates applied.

> You can configure Ansible-Galaxy CLI to verify collections. This assures that collections you download are approved by your organization and have not been changed after it was uploaded to  {HubName}.

Author: ``
```suggestion
You can configure Ansible-Galaxy CLI to verify collections. This assures that collections you download are approved by your organization and have not been changed after it was uploaded to {HubName}.
```

> You can configure Ansible-Galaxy CLI to verify collections. This assures that collections you download are approved by your organization and have not been changed after they were uploaded to {HubName}.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can configure Ansible-Galaxy CLI to verify collections. 
This ensures that collections you download are approved by your organization and have not been changed after they were uploaded to {HubName}.
```

> If a collection has been signed by {HubName}, the server provides ASCII armored, GPG-detached signatures to verify the authenticity of MANIFEST.json before using it to verify the collection’s contents. You must opt into signature verification by link:https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/devel/reference_appendices/config.html#galaxy-gpg-keyring[configuring a keyring] for `ansible-galaxy` or providing the path with the `--keyring` option.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If a collection has been signed by {HubName}, the server provides ASCII armored, GPG-detached signatures to verify the authenticity of `MANIFEST.json` before using it to verify the collection’s contents. 
You must opt into signature verification by link:https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/devel/reference_appendices/config.html#galaxy-gpg-keyring[configuring a keyring] for `ansible-galaxy` or providing the path with the `--keyring` option.
```

> If a collection has been signed by {HubName}, the server provides ASCII armored, GPG-detached signatures to verify the authenticity of the MANIFEST.json before using it to verify the collection’s contents. You must opt into signature verification by link:https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/devel/reference_appendices/config.html#galaxy-gpg-keyring[configuring a keyring] for `ansible-galaxy` or providing the path with the `--keyring` option.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If a collection has been signed by {HubName}, the server provides ASCII armored, GPG-detached signatures to verify the authenticity of `MANIFEST.json` before using it to verify the collection’s contents. You must opt into signature verification by link:https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/devel/reference_appendices/config.html#galaxy-gpg-keyring[configuring a keyring] for `ansible-galaxy` or providing the path with the `--keyring` option.
```

Author: Update applied.

> If a collection has been signed by the Galaxy server, the server provides ASCII armored, detached signatures to verify the authenticity of the MANIFEST.json before using it to verify the collection’s contents. You must opt into signature verification by link:https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/devel/reference_appendices/config.html#galaxy-gpg-keyring[configuring a keyring] for `ansible-galaxy` or providing the path with the `--keyring` option.

Reviewer 2: Might be worth mentioning here that these are GPG detached signatures.  Later on we just say "signature" a lot, but never really clarify what the signatures actually are.

Reviewer 2: Yes, I think that works for me.

Author: Got an "ok" from @sivel to make the changes above.

.Prerequisites

* Signed collections are available in {HubName} to verify signature.
* Certified collections can be signed by approved roles within your organization.
* Public key for verification has been added to the local system keyring.

.Procedure

. To import a public key into a non-default keyring for use with `ansible-galaxy`, run the following command.
+
----
gpg --import --no-default-keyring --keyring ~/.ansible/pubring.kbx my-public-key.asc
----
+
[NOTE]
====
In addition to any signatures provided by the {HubName}, signature sources can also be provided in the requirements file and on the command line. Signature sources should be URIs.
====
+
. Use the `--signature` option to verify the collection name provided on the CLI with an additional signature.
+
----
ansible-galaxy collection install namespace.collection
--signature https://examplehost.com/detached_signature.asc
--signature file:///path/to/local/detached_signature.asc --keyring ~/.ansible/pubring.kbx
----
You can use this option multiple times to provide multiple signatures.

> . Confirm that the collections in a requirements file lists any additional signature sources following the collection’s signatures key, as in the following example.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Confirm that the collections in a requirements file list any additional signature sources following the collection’s signatures key, as in the following example.
```

+
[source,yaml]
----
# requirements.yml
collections:
  - name: ns.coll
    version: 1.0.0
    signatures:
      - https://examplehost.com/detached_signature.asc
      - file:///path/to/local/detached_signature.asc

ansible-galaxy collection verify -r requirements.yml --keyring ~/.ansible/pubring.kbx
----
+

> When you install a collection from a Galaxy server, the signatures provided by the server are saved along with the installed collections to verify the collection’s authenticity.

Reviewer 4: Let's either add "When you install a collection from _Automation Hub_ or Ansible Galaxy" **OR** change Galaxy to Automation Hub.

Reviewer 4: As a matter of fact, I'd like to globally change all mentions of Galaxy to Automation Hub.

Reviewer 4: To clarify further, let's say, 

"when you install a collection from Automation Hub..."

OR 

"when you install a collection from Console.redhat.com Automation Hub or Private Automation Hub..."

Author: Okay. Got it. I made the updates globally. Can you take another look in the **Files changed** tab to see if this is what we're looking for. 

Thanks for the feedback thus far! Let me know when you're ready to tackle the introduction for the document, **Managing Red Hat Certified and Ansible Galaxy collections in automation hub**.
